# Testing with the test-LDAP

There's a test framework included with the EGIL client source code. Its purpose
is to automate testing of the client, but it can also be useful if you just
need an LDAP server populated with some dummy school data, perhaps if you're
implementing an EGIL server and wish to test it with the EGIL client.

To use it you need a Linux system (or anything with a bash shell I suppose)
with Docker installed (the LDAP server will run in a Docker container).

Once you've downloaded the EGIL client source code, you'll find some scripts
in the directory `test/scripts` which will help you start and populate the
LDAP server.

To start the LDAP server:

```
joe@ubuntu:~/git/EgilSCIM$ ./test/scripts/start_test_ldap 
```

The first time you run the command it might take a while since it needs to
download the LDAP container.

You should now have a Docker container running (named "kommunens-ldap"), with
an LDAP server listening on port 388. It uses unencrypted communication and
should of course only be used for test purposes.

The LDAP server is now empty, except that there are two users:

 * cn=readonly,dc=kommunen,dc=se (password: readonly)
 * cn=admin,dc=kommunen,dc=se (password: verysecret)

The first can be used by the EGIL client and the second can be used to populate
or modify the contents.

If you wish to restart the LDAP and get back to this (almost) empty state,
simply run the start_test_ldap script again.

If you wish to stop the LDAP, you use `docker stop`:

```
joe@ubuntu:~/git/EgilSCIM$ docker stop kommunens-ldap
```

## Scenarios

The test framework uses LDIF files to populate and modify the LDAP contents.
There are some scenarios included in the directory `test/scenarios`.

LDIF are just text files that specify LDAP changes in a declarative way. If you
have a look at the included files you can probably figure out how to write your
own scenarios if you wish to test something specific.

Each scenario consists of a collection of LDIF files in a directory. You can
apply a scenario with the `apply_scenario` script:

```
joe@ubuntu:~/git/EgilSCIM$ ./test/scripts/apply_scenario ./test/scenarios/base/
```

A convention used by the test framework is that a scenario in a sub-directory
assumes that the parent directory has just been applied. Thus you can apply
`X` followed by `X/Y` (but after this you might not be able to apply `X/Z`).

The included `base` scenario is very small with just a couple of students,
teachers and groups, but it has everything needed for the EGIL client to load
all SS12000 objects in the EGIL profile.

There are a couple of small examples of scenarios for modifying the base
scenario:

 * `base/student_name_change`
 * `base/delete_student`

So you can apply the `base` scenario and run the EGIL client, then apply
for instance `delete_student` and run the EGIL client again to
send just the needed changes to the SCIM server.

If you want a larger scenario you can use `medium` or `large`. These are
randomly generated, `medium` contains:

 * 2 school units
 * 100 groups (50 per school unit)
 * 1000 students (500 per school unit)
 * 100 teachers (50 per school unit)

The number of members in each group varies, in total there are 1000
membership relations per school unit.

Some teachers or students are not in any group and will thus not be sent
to the SCIM server.

The `large` scenario is the same but with 20 school units.

## Testing with the EGIL client

In `test/configs/base` you'll find configuration files compatible with the LDAP
schema used by the included scenarios. You'll need to modify `master.conf` a bit
to specify for instance which SCIM server to connect to and how to authenticate
(and perhaps remove some SS12000 objects from `scim-type-send-order` if the
SCIM server doesn't support all types).
