# Version 2.1.0 (2019-07-02)

This version contains a number of smaller new features and bugfixes.
Focus has been on bringing the client from a Proof-of-Concept towards something
more mature.

Below follows a brief description of the most important changes.

For a full list of changes and associated GitHub issues, see the
[CHANGELOG](../CHANGELOG.md).

## Simplified authentication with metadata

Prior to v2.1.0, all information about the SCIM server had to be manually
configured in the master config file. Starting in v2.1.0 you can instead
enter a path to a metadata file and which provider to connect to, and the
client will get all the information it needs from the metadata.

To get a verified copy of the metadata, you can use a script which
is included in the `tools` directory. There is also a new script for listing
the available entries in the metadata. For more information about how to use
these tools, see the README file in the `tools` directory.

For more information about how to configure the EGIL client with a metadata
file, see [USAGE](../doc/USAGE.md).

## Command line arguments

Command line arguments are treated in a more standardized way, and a few
new arguments have been added to make it easier to run the client in different
ways without always changing the config files.

For instance, if you'd like to use the same set of config files for two
different providers, you might want to specify cache file and provider on
the command line:

```
EgilSCIMClient --cache-file example.cache --metadata-entity example.org master.conf
```

For details, run `EgilSCIMClient -h`

## Relative paths

Using relative paths in config files is now well defined. If you use a relative
path in a config file, it will be relative to the location of the config file.

This makes it easier to move and re-use config file.

If you override a configuration parameter by specifying it on the command line
however, a relative path will be relative to where you are running the command
(which is what you'd probably expect and how most programs work).

## Logging

The client can now be configured to log all HTTP traffic, and the LDAP
load process with all LDAP queries performed.

To enable this logging, there are two config variables, `http-log-file` and
`ldap-log-file`, for instance:

```
http-log-file = /tmp/http.log
ldap-log-file = /tmp/ldap.log
```

## Improved error handling

The client should now give more helpful error messages if there is a
configuration mistake, for instance a bad LDAP filter or a syntax error in
a JSON template.

Of course, there are many different ways things can go wrong, if you find a
problem where you're not getting very helpful error messages please let us
know!

## Automated testing

This is mostly of interest when working with the source code for the EGIL
client.

There's now a framework in place for adding unit tests and system tests,
although there aren't too many tests yet.

The system test suite includes an LDAP server and a way to automatically
populate it with example students, groups, teachers, school units etc.
There's also a simple system for running scenarios ("Student X is deleted").
This might be of interest also for those that want to test their server
implementations.

## Misc bugfixes

See the [CHANGELOG](../CHANGELOG.md) and the associated GitHub issues for
more details.
