# Version 2.2.0 (2019-12-10)

This version contains a mix of features and bugfixes developed
during the second half of 2019.

Below follows a brief description of the most important changes.

For a full list of changes and associated GitHub issues, see the
[CHANGELOG](../CHANGELOG.md).

## Functionality for rebuilding the cache file

If all works as it should you shouldn't need to rebuild the cache file.
But if the cache file is lost or corrupted, or in some cases when the
server and client are out of sync, you can ask the client to rebuild
the cache file.

For more information, see [USAGE](../doc/USAGE.md)

## CSV import

In addition to loading data from LDAP, the client can now load some
or all objects from CSV.

There are example CSV files and configuration files in the test suite
showing how this can work.

For more information, see [USAGE](../doc/USAGE.md)

## Building on Windows

The client can now be compiled for Windows, using Microsoft Visual C++.

The Windows version has not been tested much yet, but almost all code
is the same for Windows and Linux.

## New metadata format

The client supports the new metadata for federated TLS authentication,
which used tags to select servers rather than server names. This means
a peer is now selected simply by specifying an entity id.

If a server name is specified, the client assumes that the old format
is used for the metadata, and will select a server by name as before.

## Various changes for automation

A few changes were made in order to make it easier to use the client from a
user friendly front-end (EgilAdmin). This mostly has to do with additional
command line arguments so a set of configuration files can be re-used for
several SCIM servers.

It's also possible now to filter the data loaded from the data source to
only a specific list of objects (for instance a list of student groups),
specified in a text file.

For more info, see [USAGE](../doc/USAGE.md)

## Misc bugfixes

See the [CHANGELOG](../CHANGELOG.md) and the associated GitHub issues for
more details.
