# Version 2.3.0 (2020-05-13)

This is a minor release with a few new features and bugfixes.

## Support for regular expressions in the switch construct

The switch construct can be used to convert attribute values in the source
data to values conforming to SS 12000. Starting in v2.3.0 you can use pattern
matching (regular expressions) to match against values in the source data.

One example where this might be useful is for generating the "studentGroupType"
attribute when there's no suitable attribute in the LDAP. For instance, if
group type can be determined based on the format of the displayName:

```
"${switch displayName case /.*-.*/: "Undervisning" default: "Klass"}"
```

In this example any displayName containing a "-" anywhere in the name is
categorized as "Undervisning", otherwise as "Klass".

If the LDAP server has an attribute for an object's DN, this pattern
matching could also be used to distinguish objects based on where they
exist in the LDAP tree.

## Log files can contain date and time format specifiers

If you wish to keep the log files (HTTP and load log), you can now specify
date and time format specifiers in the file paths.

For instance, by specifying:

```
http-log-file = /var/logs/EGIL/http-service1-%Y-%m-%d-%H.log
```

The log file name will contain year, month, day and hour, preventing it from
being overwritten by the next run.

The format specifiers work roughly the same as in the unix `date` command, for
a complete specification see the documentation for the C function strftime.

## Metadata format changes

The client now supports coming changes to the metadata format (specifically
the re-naming of the attributes for the public key pins).

This hasn't been published yet in the Kontosynk production environment,
the client is backwards compatible with the older format.

## Misc bugfixes

See the [CHANGELOG](../CHANGELOG.md) and the associated GitHub issues for
more details.
